README.md, before:


# Managing Plugins

Since version 8, Vim will natively auto-load plugins in directories matching `~/.vim/pack/*/start/`. This makes it convenient to manage plugins using git submodules instead of a package manager like [Plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) or [Pathogen](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen).

# How To Add Plugins

```
git submodule add <git-address> ./pack/plugins/start/<plugin-name>`
```

# How to Sync Local Plugins

Use this if your local machine doesn't seem to have the correct plugins installed 

```
git submodule update --init
```

# How To Update Plugin Versions

```
git submodule update --remote --merge
git commit
```

# How To Remove Plugins

```
git submodule deinit ./pack/plugins/start/<plugin-name>
git rm ./pack/plugins/start/<plugin-name>
rm -Rf .git/modules/pack/plugins/start/<plugin-name>
git commit
```

# How to Revert Changes to Plugins
```
git submodule deinit -f .
git submodule update --init
```

# Resources

[Integralist Blog](https://www.integralist.co.uk/posts/vim/)
[Vim and Composeability](https://ferd.ca/vim-and-composability.html)
[Vim Registers](https://www.brianstorti.com/vim-registers/)
[Vim Status Line](https://shapeshed.com/vim-statuslines/)

# Cheatsheet

### Terminal Tab Management on OSX

`<cmd t>` to open a new terminal tab

`<cmd w>` to close the current terminal tab

`<ctrl tab>` and `<ctrl shift tab>` to cycle terminal tabs


### File Browsing with Netrw

`:e .` to open a netrw file browser in the current directory

`:help netrw-quickmap` to list netrw commands.

`i` to cycle file list style. Option 3/4 is tree mode.

`-` to go to the parent directory

`v` to open the file under the cursor in a new vertical split

`t` to open the file under the cursor in a new tab

`I` to toggle the banner

`r` to reverse the list's sort order


### Marking Files in Netrw

`mt` to set a target directory

`mf` to mark a file

`mm` to move marked files into the target directory

`md` to open a diff of up to 3 marked files.


### Manage Screen Splits

`sp <filename>` to open a new horizontal split

`vs <filename>` to open a new vertical split

`:res 10` to horizontally resize the current split to l0 rows.

`:vert res 50` to vertically resize the current split to 50 columns.

`<ctrl w>` while pressing the navigation keys `j`, `k`, `h`, `l` to move between splits.

Use `:term` or `:vert term` to open a terminal window as a split. Use `exit` to exit.

Hold shift while using the commands to move between splits to move splits around.

Use `<ctrl w><shift t>` to open the current split in a new tab.


### Manage Multiple Editor Tabs

`:tabedit <filename>` to open a file in a new tab.

`gt` and `gT` to cycle between tabs.

`2gt` to go to the 2nd open tab.

From netrw, use `t` to open the file under the cursor in a new tab.


### Editing Basics

`u` and `<ctrl r` for undo and redo

`:w` and `:q` to write and quit

Prefix any yank with `“*` to copy to the system clipboard.


### Moving the Cursor

`hjkl` for moving the cursor

`web` for jumping between words

`ftFT` for searching within a line

`%` for jumping to matching bracket

`^`, `$`, `0` for going to the beginning and end of lines

`/` and `?` for searching forwards and back

`v` for highlighting using visual mode

`gg` to jump to the beginning of the file

`G` to jump to the end of the file

`;` to repeat the last motion in normal mode

`,` to repeat the last motion in normal mode (in reverse!)

`<ctrl d>` move up by a half page

`<ctrl u>` move up by a half page

`<ctrl y>` scroll the page up

`<ctrl e>` scroll the page down

`zz` move the current line to the middle of the screen

`zt` move the current line to the top of the screen

`zb` move the current line to the bottom of the screen


### Verbs 

`y` copy ("yank")

`Y` copy line

`d` delete

`D` delete line

`c` change

`C` change line

`>` indent and `<` unindent

`=` to correct indentation

`gu` and `gU` to capitalize and un-capitalize

`g~` to change the capitalization

`~` to change the capitalization of a single character

`.` repeat previous action




### Modifiers

`i` inside

`a` around


### Examples of Composeability

`15k` move the cursor up by 15 lines

`3W` move the cursor to the third WORD (continuous non-whitespace chars)

`7dj` deletes the next 7 lines in the `j` direction (down)

`5>j` to indent the next 5 lines. Good to pair with `.`

`ggVG` to select the entire file in visual mode.

`ci(` to change the contents of the nearest pair of parentheses.

`da{` delete the contents of the nearest curly bracket, including the brackets

`ct"` to change the contents between the cursor and the next double quote.
`yat` to yank the HTML tag under the cursor

`=at` to fix indentation around the current tag

`cit` to change the inside of an html tag

`>i{` indent everything inside the enclosing curly braces

`vi{>` indent everything inside the enclosing curly braces (with highlighting)

`vi"p` to select inside of double quotes and paste

`viW` to select a WORD (continuous chars inside whitespace)

`gUiW` to uppercase the inside of the current WORD


### Formatting

`gq` to format long lines

`=` to fix indentation

`=ap` to re-indent the enclosing paragraph.

`>l` and `<h` to move endentation to the right and left.

`<ctrl a>` and `<ctrl x>` to increment and decrement numbers. Prefix with `g` to get a staircase effect.


### Multi-File Navigation

`:b#` to open the last open buffer. ("back")

`gf` to open a file whose name is under the cursor.

`<ctrl w> gf` to open the file under the cursor in a new tab.

`:pwd` to show the current directory

`:b <tab>` to cycle through all open (buffered) files

`:only` to close all other splits except the current


### Find and Replace

`:%s/before/after` to substitute the first instance of "before" with "after".

`:49,$s/before/after` to substitute between the 49th and final line

`:s/` to substitute only on the current line.

`&` to repeat the previous substitution.

`g&` to apply the previous substitution to the entire file.

`:vimgrep '<pattern>' <filepath>` to search the codebase

`:cn`, `:cp`, `:cnf` `:cnp` to jump between matches.

`:cr` to return to the first match.

`:cdo s/before/after/gc | update` to interactively find and replace matches from `:vimgrep`

Use `gd` or `gD` to go to a local declaration of a variable.

`gD` always starts from the top of the file.


### Autocomplete

`<ctrl> n` to autocomplete.

`<ctrl> p` to autocomplete using words pressing you have already typed.

`<ctrl> xf` to autocomplete filenames.

`<ctrl> n` and `<ctrl> p` to cycle through autocomplete options.


### Macros

Press `q` in normal mode to start recording a macro, and then another key, let's say `w` that the macro will be assigned to.

Input your macro, and press `q` again to finish recording.

Type `@w` in normal mode to replay the macro.

Type `3@w` to replay the macro 3 times


### Diffing Files

`[c` and `]c` to jump between regions of the diff.

`:diffget` or `do` to pull in the current change from the opposite file.

`:diffput` or `dp` to push the current change into the opposite file.

`:diffupdate` to re-scan your open files for a diff.

## Migrating to Neovim

After installing neovim, add this to `~/.config/nvim/init.vim`:

```
set runtimepath^=~/.vim runtimepath+=~/.vim/after
let &packpath=&runtimepath
source ~/.vim/vimrc
```

### Misc

Source control your `~/.vim` directory.

Learn manage plugins, colors, etc.. as git submodules

Look at other people's RC files

Commit message:

Add language server support plugins

README.md, after:


# Managing Plugins

Since version 8, Vim will natively auto-load plugins in directories matching `~/.vim/pack/*/start/`. This makes it convenient to manage plugins using git submodules instead of a package manager like [Plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) or [Pathogen](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen).

# How To Add Plugins

```
git submodule add <git-address> ./pack/plugins/start/<plugin-name>`
```

# How to Sync Local Plugins

Use this if your local machine doesn't seem to have the correct plugins installed 

```
git submodule update --init
```

# How To Update Plugin Versions

```
git submodule update --remote --merge
git commit
```

# How To Remove Plugins

```
git submodule deinit ./pack/plugins/start/<plugin-name>
git rm ./pack/plugins/start/<plugin-name>
rm -Rf .git/modules/pack/plugins/start/<plugin-name>
git commit
```

# How to Revert Changes to Plugins
```
git submodule deinit -f .
git submodule update --init
```

## Managing Language Server

The [vim-lsp-settings plugin](https://github.com/mattn/vim-lsp-settings) is
used to manage LSPs and integrate them with the `vim-lsp` plugin.

Use `:LspInstallServer` to install a language server for the currently open filetype.

Use `:LspUninstallServer <server-name>` to install a language server.

LSP servers are installed in `$HOME/.local/share/vim-lsp-settings/servers`

# Resources

[Integralist Blog](https://www.integralist.co.uk/posts/vim/)
[Vim and Composeability](https://ferd.ca/vim-and-composability.html)
[Vim Registers](https://www.brianstorti.com/vim-registers/)
[Vim Status Line](https://shapeshed.com/vim-statuslines/)

# Cheatsheet

### Terminal Tab Management on OSX

`<cmd t>` to open a new terminal tab

`<cmd w>` to close the current terminal tab

`<ctrl tab>` and `<ctrl shift tab>` to cycle terminal tabs


### File Browsing with Netrw

`:e .` to open a netrw file browser in the current directory

`:help netrw-quickmap` to list netrw commands.

`i` to cycle file list style. Option 3/4 is tree mode.

`-` to go to the parent directory

`v` to open the file under the cursor in a new vertical split

`t` to open the file under the cursor in a new tab

`I` to toggle the banner

`r` to reverse the list's sort order


### Marking Files in Netrw

`mt` to set a target directory

`mf` to mark a file

`mm` to move marked files into the target directory

`md` to open a diff of up to 3 marked files.


### Manage Screen Splits

`sp <filename>` to open a new horizontal split

`vs <filename>` to open a new vertical split

`:res 10` to horizontally resize the current split to l0 rows.

`:vert res 50` to vertically resize the current split to 50 columns.

`<ctrl w>` while pressing the navigation keys `j`, `k`, `h`, `l` to move between splits.

Use `:term` or `:vert term` to open a terminal window as a split. Use `exit` to exit.

Hold shift while using the commands to move between splits to move splits around.

Use `<ctrl w><shift t>` to open the current split in a new tab.


### Manage Multiple Editor Tabs

`:tabedit <filename>` to open a file in a new tab.

`gt` and `gT` to cycle between tabs.

`2gt` to go to the 2nd open tab.

From netrw, use `t` to open the file under the cursor in a new tab.


### Editing Basics

`u` and `<ctrl r` for undo and redo

`:w` and `:q` to write and quit

Prefix any yank with `“*` to copy to the system clipboard.


### Moving the Cursor

`hjkl` for moving the cursor

`web` for jumping between words

`ftFT` for searching within a line

`%` for jumping to matching bracket

`^`, `$`, `0` for going to the beginning and end of lines

`/` and `?` for searching forwards and back

`v` for highlighting using visual mode

`gg` to jump to the beginning of the file

`G` to jump to the end of the file

`;` to repeat the last motion in normal mode

`,` to repeat the last motion in normal mode (in reverse!)

`<ctrl d>` move up by a half page

`<ctrl u>` move up by a half page

`<ctrl y>` scroll the page up

`<ctrl e>` scroll the page down

`zz` move the current line to the middle of the screen

`zt` move the current line to the top of the screen

`zb` move the current line to the bottom of the screen


### Verbs 

`y` copy ("yank")

`Y` copy line

`d` delete

`D` delete line

`c` change

`C` change line

`>` indent and `<` unindent

`=` to correct indentation

`gu` and `gU` to capitalize and un-capitalize

`g~` to change the capitalization

`~` to change the capitalization of a single character

`.` repeat previous action




### Modifiers

`i` inside

`a` around


### Examples of Composeability

`15k` move the cursor up by 15 lines

`3W` move the cursor to the third WORD (continuous non-whitespace chars)

`7dj` deletes the next 7 lines in the `j` direction (down)

`5>j` to indent the next 5 lines. Good to pair with `.`

`ggVG` to select the entire file in visual mode.

`ci(` to change the contents of the nearest pair of parentheses.

`da{` delete the contents of the nearest curly bracket, including the brackets

`ct"` to change the contents between the cursor and the next double quote.
`yat` to yank the HTML tag under the cursor

`=at` to fix indentation around the current tag

`cit` to change the inside of an html tag

`>i{` indent everything inside the enclosing curly braces

`vi{>` indent everything inside the enclosing curly braces (with highlighting)

`vi"p` to select inside of double quotes and paste

`viW` to select a WORD (continuous chars inside whitespace)

`gUiW` to uppercase the inside of the current WORD


### Formatting

`gq` to format long lines

`=` to fix indentation

`=ap` to re-indent the enclosing paragraph.

`>l` and `<h` to move endentation to the right and left.

`<ctrl a>` and `<ctrl x>` to increment and decrement numbers. Prefix with `g` to get a staircase effect.


### Multi-File Navigation

`:b#` to open the last open buffer. ("back")

`gf` to open a file whose name is under the cursor.

`<ctrl w> gf` to open the file under the cursor in a new tab.

`:pwd` to show the current directory

`:b <tab>` to cycle through all open (buffered) files

`:only` to close all other splits except the current


### Find and Replace

`:%s/before/after` to substitute the first instance of "before" with "after".

`:49,$s/before/after` to substitute between the 49th and final line

`:s/` to substitute only on the current line.

`&` to repeat the previous substitution.

`g&` to apply the previous substitution to the entire file.

`:vimgrep '<pattern>' <filepath>` to search the codebase

`:cn`, `:cp`, `:cnf` `:cnp` to jump between matches.

`:cr` to return to the first match.

`:cdo s/before/after/gc | update` to interactively find and replace matches from `:vimgrep`

Use `gd` or `gD` to go to a local declaration of a variable.

`gD` always starts from the top of the file.


### Autocomplete

`<ctrl> n` to autocomplete.

`<ctrl> p` to autocomplete using words pressing you have already typed.

`<ctrl> xf` to autocomplete filenames.

`<ctrl> n` and `<ctrl> p` to cycle through autocomplete options.


### Macros

Press `q` in normal mode to start recording a macro, and then another key, let's say `w` that the macro will be assigned to.

Input your macro, and press `q` again to finish recording.

Type `@w` in normal mode to replay the macro.

Type `3@w` to replay the macro 3 times


### Diffing Files

`[c` and `]c` to jump between regions of the diff.

`:diffget` or `do` to pull in the current change from the opposite file.

`:diffput` or `dp` to push the current change into the opposite file.

`:diffupdate` to re-scan your open files for a diff.

## Migrating to Neovim

After installing neovim, add this to `~/.config/nvim/init.vim`:

```
set runtimepath^=~/.vim runtimepath+=~/.vim/after
let &packpath=&runtimepath
source ~/.vim/vimrc
```
### Neovim Tips

Use `<SPACE>sf` to search files

### Misc

Source control your `~/.vim` directory.

Learn manage plugins, colors, etc.. as git submodules

Look at other people's RC files
